---
slug: 2022-08-22-wcia-technical-committee-report
title: 'WCIA Technical Committee Report - 2022-08-22'
authors: [bobby]
tags: [v2-1]
---

# Technical Committee Report

---

**_Release v2.1.0 Go/NoGo Meeting: Not scheduled._**

**_Next Release (v2.1.0) Date: Not scheduled._**

## V2.1.0 Schema Changes to be Implemented:

- **Version Minor Increment**
    - **Schema(s) Affected**: _Transfer Data Schema_, and _Lab Result Schema_
        - The changes to the schemas are backward compatible, resulting in a minor version increment:
            - `"document_schema_version": "v2.1.0"`

<!-- truncate -->

- Additional Lab Results Fields
  - **Schema(s) Affected**: _Lab Result Schema_
    - Three additional keys are to be added to the Lab Result Schema:
      - `coa_release_date`: The name of the laboratory. (string)
      - `coa_amended_date`: The laboratory’s UBI License. (string|null)
      - `coa_expire_date`: The Laboratory’s CCRS Identifier (string|null)

Example:
```json
{
  "document_name": "WCIA Lab Result Schema",
  "document_schema_version": "1.3.0",
  "document_origin": "https://cannalabinc.com/wcia/v1/cannabisLabResult.json",
  "lab_name": "Cannabis Laboratory, Inc.",
  "lab_ubi_license": "9876543210",
  "lab_ccrs_license": "0123456789",
  "labresult_id": "WA-220315-999",
  "coa": "https://cannalabinc.com/PesticidesLabResult.pdf",
  "release_date": "2022-03-18",
  "amended_date": "",
  "expire_date": "2022-09-04",
  ...
}
```

- **Schema(s) Affected**: _Transfer Data Schema_
  - New array field to be added within the existing lab-result_data object::
    - `lab_result_list`: An array of lab result objects (array)
  - This array is populated with lab result object, and adds the following new fields:
    - `coa_release_date`: The date of release of testing data. (string|null)
    - `coa_amended_date`: The date of amendment of testing data, if amended. (string|null)
    - `coa_expire_date`: The date of expiration of testing data, if it expires. (string|null)
    - `lab_result_link`: Url to the lab result JSON data (string)

Example:
```text
"lab_result_data": {                         // existing object
  "lab_result_list": [                       // or lab_results, lab_result_data_list, or ???
  	{
       // existing fields
       "coa": "string",                      // URL to COA pdf
       "lab_result_id: "string"              // generated by Lab // existing field
       "lab_result_status: "pass" or "fail", // existing field
       
       // relocated from main JSON object
       "lab_result_link: "NULL | string",    // URL to lab result JSON data

       // new fields
       "coa_release_date": "string",         // ISO 8601 format // new field
       "coa_amended_date": "NULL | string",  // ISO 8601 format // new field
       "coa_expire_date": "NULL | string",   // ISO 8601 format // new field
    },
],
"potency" : { ... },
},...
```

## Additional Information:

There are two problems that this change aims to solve. As a result of the new pesticide testing regulations, there is a 
sunset date after which products not subjected to the new testing rules cannot be made eligible for sale. Under the 
current schemas, a designated field for date of testing is absent. The current practice is to use the designated CoA URL 
field to open the document and acquire the date of testing. This is potentially a substantial inefficiency in what will 
shortly become a common workflow for many end users. As others have noted, interop systems in other legal jurisdictions 
do this, and sometimes also include an “Expiration Date.” Additionally, this has resulted in some product with multiple 
certs, and thus multiple data sets. The current transfer data JSON does not allow for items with multiple test results 
(CoA pdfs and JSON data links). The proposed changes leave the existing data structure in-tact for a while, allowing 
integrators to choose adoption at their own pace.  Following this implementation, would be a depreciation round that will 
consist of removing the old fields. This will be a major version bump to v3.0.

## Next Steps

1. Complete any remaining discussion items this week, and set a Go Live date.
2. Implement.
3. Schedule Technology Committee meeting for v3.0 discussion and planning.

